In this lesson we will learn how to add a video file to a web page before we get started.
There's something that I would like to discuss.
We will learn of this video that the syntax the code for natively adding video to T-Mo pages is very
simple.
Anyone can write the code themselves.
However in the real world it is my opinion that adding videos to a web page yourself without relying
on some sort of third party service or third party javascript solution is an exercise in futility.
However this is a course on H TNL so I wouldn't be doing my job if I didn't teach you how to use the
native HLL tools to include video on a page.
Now towards the end of this lesson I will explain a bit more in detail.
Perhaps it doesn't make sense for the average beginner to try to concoct their own video solution.
But for the time being let's get started in front of you is an example page that I've created for this
lesson.
We can see that there's a bit of dummy text mentioning there should be a video but there's clearly not
a video player at the moment.
So our goal for this lesson is to work together to add a video player.
Let's jump into our text editor and we want to add a video directly below this paragraph.
The first thing that I'll mention is that the code for including a video file is nearly identical to
the code that we used for adding an audio file so the elements name is simply video within the video
element will create another element named source.
The first attribute that be assigned to the source element is SIRC and this is where we point the web
browser to the video file that we want to include the video file that I want to include is currently
on my desktop and it is named example.
MP for our Web site currently lives in this folder.
So lets move the video file to sit in the same directory as our HVM web page.
Now within this directory let's create a folder named video just to stay organized and then move our
video into that folder.
So within our code we will move into the video folder.
Then include a forward slash and then simply type the name of the video file.
Example.
For the second attribute that we will want to add to our source element is named type and it just lets
the web browser know what type of file this is.
So obviously it's a video file and the extension is MP4.
Finally let's add the attribute name of controls to the parent video element to make sure that web browsers
attempt to add pause play in volume buttons.
So if I save and then refresh the page in Firefox we see something interesting.
If I were using a different web browser say Google Chrome or Internet Explorer or Safari the video would
load correctly.
However because I'm using Mozilla Firefox for Mac OS 10.
Currently that browser and platform does not support MP for video files in a month or maybe six months
maybe in a year it will.
But as of today it doesn't.
So what we can do is include a second source element inside our video element to make sure that different
browsers can still view the video.
Now on my desktop I have a video file named example dot web M.
It's the exact same VIDEOCLIP as the video that's currently in the video folder named example not before
it's just been saved in a different file format so lets move that into the correct folder and then in
our code will point towards that file video.
Example dot web M type video with an extension of web m.
So now if I save and refresh in Firefox you can see that there is a video and when I click the play
button we should see movement with the voiceover.
This is an example video file of me moving my mouse around.
Excellent but lets go the extra mile and add a third source element to make sure that every device and
platform under the sun can view the video on my desktop.
I have a third file named example dot ogv.
So let's move that into the video folder and then in our code will create a third source element video
.
Example dot O.G. V and the type equals video with an OG extension.
So we now have three identical videos saved in different file formats and these are the three most popular
HMO five video formats.
I want to reiterate that the web browser will not download or send a server request for all three videos
.
It will stop as soon as it gets to the first video that it supports playback for this means that among
modern web browsers and devices we have covered all of our bases and we have ensured that our video
is accessible.
However older or outdated versions of web browsers do not support native HTML video they instead require
a plugin usually Adobe's Flash.
However this is a course on HTL not Adobe Flash or building custom video solutions.
So what we will do to handle legacy browsers is simply include a bit of simple fallback text your web
browser is out dated and does not support H TNL video.
Please consider updating and then we can make the word updating a link.
And if users click on it we'll point them towards a Web site named browse happy dot com.
The browse happy website will give users more information on how to update their browser.
So that's an example of how each DML can natively add video to a page.
However in the real world it's a little bit more complicated than that.
Here are a few reasons why.
Number one older browsers support in the real world.
It's probably not the best idea to tell users to hit the road if they don't have the newest web browser
.
So you will need some sort of Adobe Flash fallback support for legacy browsers.
Number two video resolution.
For example if someone comes to our website and they have a slow internet connection it probably doesn't
make sense to serve them up at 10 ETP high def video.
So instead we need a video solution that can do either one of two things.
Maybe even both.
Number one automatically detect the user's speed and then adjust the video resolution to the quality
of the video depending on their speed or number two we have some sort of resolution picture so users
can click or tap on a menu to choose do they want 240 P or ATP 10 ADP or somewhere in between to match
their speed.
Number three custom UI or branding concerns.
So for example what if we want to control the way that the pause in play icons look or where they sit
or what color they are in order to override the default HVM L5 control bar.
We're going to need to write a bit of Javascript.
Now what do all three of these complications have in common.
They are all outside the scope of basic h TNL which means until you are an experienced web developer
until you're familiar with writing javascript code you will have a tough time tackling any of these
issues on your own.
And there's usually no sense in trying to reinvent the wheel.
Instead I recommend you use a third party video hosting service.
Some of them are free.
Some of them cost money.
You can from your own web search but at the end of the day it's a central place where you can upload
a video and they will take care of everything else for you.
They'll give you a bit of code that you can copy and paste into your web page and then your users your
visitors will receive a flawless video experience that's going to conclude this lesson on adding video
to a page.
I'll see you in the next lesson